The paper draws attention on the recent developments in the field of data science and how data science is going to play a pivotal role in the decision making in numerous fields. The paper describes the amalgamation of academic statistics and machine learning to implement it for scientific studies of data analysis. It also discusses how the data science is different from classical academic statistics. Most statisticians consider that data science activities are similar and generic to the one that they were practicing in their early careers. However, author takes on different stand on it by providing evidence (from University Michigan Data Science Initiative) that statistics play a pivotal role in data science but its not entirely just statistics. Furthermore, author goes in details on how statisticians have different take on the interpretation of data science. The major differentiation elucidated by the author on data science and statistics is that data science is used for making significant predictions whereas statistics is used for making inferences from the dataset. The author also describes his reservation with the association of big data, skills used and Jobs in relevance with Data science.  The author describes the prophecy of John Tukey and his vision on the future of data science which Tukey predicted 50 years ago. Tukey’s ideas in his article describes the inconsistencies in the applied statistics and foresee data science as new science.

Furthermore, author describes the Breiman’s two cultures in analyzing the data. One where data was used to make the predictions which was called “predictive modelling” and another to make the inferences which was called “Generative Modelling”. Author explains the advantages of predictive modeling by showcasing the Fair, Issac case study. He also suggests that machine learning is a central aspect of predictive modelling. Author goes in depth in the article to demonstrate the success of predictive modelling was because of common task framework (CTF). He explains the principles behind the use of CTF by showcasing the Netflix challenge for user movie selection prediction. Additionally, author shares the ideas by Liberman which describes that CTF is the common factor in all the automatic processes success such as google translate.

In conclusion CTF plays the major role behind the success of machine learning by reducing the error rate by a fixed percentage and allowing different users to share the same database to create an accurate predictive model.